---
layout: post
lang: en
title: Call for OCR-D Implementation online!
tags: [DFG, call]
lang-ref: dfg-phase3
author: Elisabeth Engl
---

The [call for the implementation of the OCR-D software for the full text digitisation of historical prints](https://www.dfg.de/download/pdf/foerderung/programme/lis/ausschreibung_ocr_implementierung.pdf)
is now available [on the website of the German Research Association (DFG)](https://www.dfg.de/foerderung/programme/infrastruktur/lis/).

The aim of the OCR-D coordination project, which was launched in autumn 2015,
is to describe procedures and develop guidelines in order to achieve an optimal
workflow and the greatest possible standardisation of OCR-related processes and
metadata. Furthermore, the complete transformation of the written German
cultural heritage into a machine-readable form (structured full text) is to be
prepared conceptually. Primarily, works from the Union Catalogue of Books
Printed in German Speaking Countries in the 16th-18th century (VD) as well as
books published in the 19th century in the German language area will be
considered. The VD projects comprise about 1 million titles that are currently
being digitized and are to be processed by means of OCR in the future.

The work done so far in the OCR-D initiative has led to significant
improvements in the optical character and layout recognition of historical
prints.  The Software prototype promises flexible integration into existing
(librarian) workflow and digitisation systems due to its modular design. The
implementation of the OCR-D software in libraries, archives and other
collection holding institutions is the next necessary step to ensure that
high-quality full texts can be produced.

The central goal of the new call is the development of (generic) implementation
packages with acceptable performance for different requirements. It is
primarily aimed at collection holding institutions, the application is due on
October 7, 2020. The DFG expects applicants to hand in a letter of intent by May ~~5~~ 22. If you are interested in participating, please don't hesitate to
[contact us](/en/contact).
